["install initial downloader module in victim uefi firmware using leaked hackingteam bootkit vectoredk . ", "initial downloader executes on boot , drops intelupdate.exe payload to run at startup . ", "intelupdate.exe makes network connections to command servers to retrieve additional modules . ", "modules use bits , libcurl , winhttp to communicate with command servers . ", "modules collect system information and exfiltrate it to command servers . ", "later stages fetch tailored payloads sent via email attachments or downloaded from command servers . ", "payloads consist of dlls with simple exported functions to run commands and exfiltrate data . ", "payloads gather documents , run arbitrary commands , and exfiltrate further data to command servers . ", "modular framework can be extended by operators , updated over time . ", "targets primarily in middle east , decoy documents suggest political / espionage motives ."]
["the malware is distributed via phishing emails containing links or attachments . the lures are customized for the target ( event invites , software updates , etc. ) . ", "if the attachment is opened or link clicked , the first stage malware ( dropper ) is installed on the system . ", "the dropper decrypts and executes the main confucius malware payload . ", "confucius queries posts on yahoo answers or quora to extract keywords based on predefined markers . ", "it uses the keywords to construct or decode the ip address of the command and control server . ", "confucius contacts the c2 server to receive commands and exfiltrate data from the compromised system . ", "the c2 server can send further commands to control the system , spread laterally , and collect sensitive documents and data . ", "exfiltrated data may be compressed and encrypted before being sent to the attacker 's remote server . ", "the process allows the malware to bypass blocking of known malicious domains by using legitimate websites ."]
["the sandworm group deploys modified firmware images containing the cyclops blink malware by exploiting externally available services on devices . ", "the malware establishes persistence by being included in the device firmware that loads on start up . it also modifies linux scripts that execute on boot . ", "cyclops blink evades defenses by disabling the firewall and masquerading as a legitimate linux process . ", "the malware collects system information from the device for exfiltration . ", "it communicates with command and control servers using encrypted non-standard protocols over http / https . traffic goes through proxies and uses fallback channels . ", "cyclops blink can download additional modules and files from the c2 server . ", "it exfiltrates data back to the c2 server ."]
["the attackers gained initial access by exploiting vulnerabilities in public - facing applications of the target organizations . ", "they used dual - use tools like adfind , winrar , and certutil to help map the internal network and carry out activities . ", "custom malware like the hannotog and sagerunex backdoors were deployed on compromised systems . ", "the backdoors provided capabilities like command execution , firewall manipulation , data exfiltration , and c2 communication . ", "the sagerunex backdoor stores encrypted configuration files on disk and communicates with c2 servers over https . ", "various techniques are used to proxy c2 traffic , including wpad and web browsers . commands allow theft of data , execution of code , and malware distribution . ", "while no data theft was observed , the targeting of government agencies points to espionage being the end goal . ", "the certificate authority was likely compromised with the intent of stealing certificates to sign malware and avoid detection ."]
["attacker gains initial access by exploiting unsecured kubelet apis that allow anonymous commands ", "attacker executes commands on pods to download and run tmate reverse shell ", "tmate shell used to scan and find other exploitable kubelets using masscan ", "malicious cryptojacking script xmr.sh deployed to containers on compromised kubelets ", "xmr.sh scripts execute xmrig to mine monero cryptocurrency ", "xmrig processes connect back to irc c2 channel ", "attacker establishes additional reverse shells to compromised containers for control ", "tools gathered for container breakout , credential theft , and lateral movement"]
["void balaur registers domains to be used for phishing and malware distribution . many follow predictable patterns impersonating account services . ", "the group distributes phishing emails to targets , often generic themes but may be tailored with details relevant to the target . ", "phishing emails contain links leading to void balaur domains hosting credential harvesting pages disguised as login portals . ", "users who enter credentials on fake login pages unknowingly provide their usernames / passwords to void balaur . ", "for accounts with multi-factor authentication , void balaur requests one - time backup codes to bypass mfa protections . ", "using stolen credentials , void balaur gains access to target email accounts , social media , etc. ", "void balaur deploys malware like grimplant and graphsteel for further access , reconnaissance , and data exfiltration . ", "malware achieves persistence and connects to command and control servers operated by void balaur . ", "group monetizes access by selling to customers and facilitating further exploitation ."]
["babar is likely spread through targeted spear - phishing emails to infect specific victims . ", "once executed , it establishes command and control communication to receive instructions . ", "it exfiltrates keystrokes , screenshots , clipboard contents , and audio recordings to the c&c server . ", "the malware can also receive and execute further modules for expanded access . ", "the attackers use this access to silently monitor the target and steal sensitive data over a period of time . ", "babar evades detection to operate as a long - term spying tool on compromised systems ."]
["attackers injected malicious scripts into legitimate georgian news websites . ", "the scripts redirected visitors to pages containing exploit code to download malware . ", "the malware ( calc.exe ) executed a drive - by download on the victim 's computer . ", "calc.exe injected code into explorer.exe to maintain persistence , creating a file called usbserv.exe . ", "usbserv.exe communicated with hacked georgian websites to retrieve c2 server addresses . ", "the malware connected to c2 servers to receive commands and exfiltrate data . ", "the malware searched for sensitive keywords in documents and recorded audio / video . ", "stolen documents were uploaded to c2 servers . ", "the c2 servers changed ip addresses and hosting countries frequently . ", "the malware evolved its capabilities over time to evade detection . ", "links were found between the malware / c2 and russian cybercriminal / intelligence groups ."]
["the threat actor registers doppelg\u00e4nger domains mimicking real university websites . ", "they set up phishing pages on these domains and host them on servers in iran . ", "the group sends spear phishing emails to university staff and students containing links to the fake sites . ", "targets who click the links are taken to the phishing pages designed to steal their credentials . ", "users are prompted to enter their usernames and passwords on the fake login pages . ", "the entered credentials are captured by the threat actor and compromised . ", "the group uses the stolen credentials to gain access to university accounts and further infiltrate networks . ", "they exfiltrate sensitive research data and intellectual property from compromised accounts and systems . ", "the phishing sites are quickly taken down , but the attacker rapidly registers new domains and continues attacks . ", "the cycle repeats annually coinciding with the university school year starting in september ."]
["send spearphishing emails with malicious attachments to targets . ", "malicious attachment executes and drops polyglotduke or regduke first stage . ", "first stage collects system info and connects to command servers on twitter , reddit , etc. to get instructions . ", "first stage downloads and executes miniduke second stage backdoor . ", "miniduke escalates privileges and downloads fatduke final backdoor . ", "fatduke exfiltrates documents and data to command servers over https ."]
["state - sponsored groups recruit talent from universities conducting cutting - edge ai and cybersecurity research . ", "the groups likely provide funding or data to guide the academic research toward operational needs . ", "researchers develop techniques for exploiting systems , evading detection , discovering vulnerabilities , etc. ", "promising research is transitioned by the hacking groups into new tradecraft and operational capabilities . ", "the groups employ the new ai / ml techniques in cyber operations for espionage , surveillance , or sabotage . ", "rapid experimentation and implementation accelerates the development cycle from lab to operations ."]
["initial infection via phishing email or other vector like exploit kits . the phishing emails are sent by botnets like crap2p / necurs and cutwail controlled by dridex operators or affiliates . ", "the phishing email contains a malicious attachment or link . if opened / clicked , it downloads the dridex loader module . ", "the loader installs the main dridex payload and additional modules . it also downloads an initial peer list to connect to the command and control infrastructure . ", "dridex collects reconnaissance and gathers credentials via keylogging , web injections into banking sites , etc. ", "the stolen banking credentials are leveraged by the operators to perform unauthorized bank transfers and steal money . ", "in some cases , dridex may download additional payloads like ransomware onto compromised machines . ", "the peer - to - peer botnet infrastructure helps preserve anonymity of the command servers and bolster resilience . ", "affiliates pay evil corp to use subsets of the dridex botnets and botnet ids for distribution . revenue is shared . ", "dridex continues evolving with new modules , exploits , obfuscation , and evasion techniques to sustain operations ."]
["perform initial compromise of targets via socially engineered emails containing shimratreporter malware . ", "shimratreporter gathers system info and sends it to a c2 server to map the victim 's environment . ", "mofang sets up infrastructure mimicking the target network or software . ", "a main compromise is conducted by sending emails with a sharon malware variant containing custom reconnaissance details and communicating with the imposter infrastructure . ", "shimrat carries out goals like stealing files , logging keystrokes , and screenshotting through its c2 channels . ", "collected data is exfiltrated from the victim network back to mofang 's servers . ", "new waves of attacks with updated malware are conducted as needed to pursue mofang 's espionage objectives ."]
["the wiper malware contains ip addresses of command and control ( c2 ) servers hardcoded in the files . ", "the malware sends beacons containing the infected host 's ip address and hostname to the c2 servers . ", "the beacon payload is constructed by allocating a buffer that is too large , resulting in extra data from the stack being included . ", "the malware overwrites systems by wiping data to render it inaccessible . ", "the wiping can cover up other malicious activity and make investigation difficult ."]
["researchers started by analyzing a single ip address and c2 directory pattern associated with distributing agent tesla malware . ", "passive dns analysis of the initial ip revealed hosting of a c2 domain . ", "ssl certificate data tied the initial ip to other ips hosting the same certificate . ", "c2 traffic patterns and mana tools login pages connected the ips to hagga infrastructure . ", "open ports analysis indicated the c2s run on windows servers likely using xampp web servers . ", "a backend mysql server was identified , receiving traffic from the c2 ips . ", "continued monitoring of the mysql server revealed new ips contacting it , attributed to hagga . ", "new hagga c2 domains were identified through passive dns associations with the mysql server . ", "malbeacon telemetry ultimately tied activity back to ip addresses around lahore , pakistan . ", "ongoing monitoring of the mysql server enabled rapid discovery of new hagga infrastructure . ", "fingerprinting of ssl certificates and c2 patterns enabled attribution of new infrastructure to hagga ."]
["spear phishing emails sent with weaponized office documents containing macros . ", "macros download oceansalt malware implant from compromised servers . ", "oceansalt executes and establishes command and control channel . ", "initial reconnaissance of victim system sent to c", "5 . ", "6 . ", "7 . ", "8 . "]
["the attacker sends a spearphishing email with a malicious pdf exploiting cve -2013-", "2 . ", "3 . ", "4 . ", "5 . ", "6 . ", "2 . ", "additional payloads are delivered via encrypted gifs from the command servers . ", "the final payloads allow the attacker to control the system and extract documents . ", "c2 logs reveal victims ' details like location and system info ."]
["spearphishing emails containing document lures are sent to targets . ", "the documents exploit vulnerabilities to drop and execute the plaintee or ddkong malware . ", "the malware establishes persistence on the system . ", "the malware phones home to the c2 server over tcp or udp . ", "the c2 sends commands to collect system info and execute additional plugins . ", "the plugins are used to exfiltrate documents from the target system back to the c2 ."]
["compromise domain registration credentials to create shadowed subdomains . ", "configure shadowed domains to filter traffic and redirect to angler ek . ", "send traffic from compromised ad agency to shadowed domains . ", "shadowed domains filter out non-targeted traffic . ", "targeted traffic is redirected through various checks and landing pages to angler ek . ", "angler ek uses exploits and checks to filter researchers and load malware like bedep ."]
["on january 25 , 2023 , eset researchers discovered a new cyberattack in ukraine . ", "the attackers deployed a new wiper malware called swiftslicer . ", "swiftslicer was distributed using active directory group policy . ", "the wiper is written in the go programming language . ", "eset attributes this attack to the sandworm threat actor group . ", "when executed , swiftslicer deletes shadow copies on the system . ", "it recursively overwrites files located in % csidl_system % \\ drivers . ", "it overwrites files in % csidl_system_drive % \\ windows \\ ntds . ", "it overwrites files on other non-system drives . ", "for overwriting files , it uses a 4,096 byte block filled with random bytes . ", "after overwriting files , swiftslicer reboots the computer . ", "eset provided an ioc hash and detection names for the malware . ", "the attack shows sandworm has developed a new go - based wiper for attacks against ukraine ."]
["attackers compromised the vgca website and trojanized two software installers hosted on it . ", "the trojanized installers included a backdoor named phantomnet . ", "when executed by a victim , the installer would install the legitimate vgca software and phantomnet . ", "phantomnet would communicate with c2 servers using https and certificate pinning . ", "phantomnet could collect system info , proxy settings , credentials from the victim system . ", "phantomnet could download additional plugins , including ones focused on lateral movement . ", "by hijacking the trusted vgca software installers , the attackers could silently compromise targets that downloaded and installed the trojanized software ."]
["a malicious rtf document is distributed via malspam . ", "the document exploits cve -2017-11882 when opened by the victim . ", "a malicious dll is dropped and injected into explorer.exe . ", "the elise malware is installed and establishes persistence . ", "elise contacts its c2 server at 103.236.150 [ . ] ", "6 . "]
["prior to deploying ransomware , iridium used remote execution tools like remoteexec and impacket for privilege escalation and credential theft . ", "to deploy ransomware , iridium copied payloads to admin shares or domain controllers and executed via scheduled tasks , wmi , or group policy . ", "the prestige ransomware encrypts files with certain extensions and appends . enc , using crypto + + library . ", "it deletes backups and shadow copies , disables sql server , and drops a ransom note ."]
["the group conducts reconnaissance on targets of interest , focusing on organizations in certain industries like military , government , and technology companies in asia and eastern europe . ", "they craft phishing emails that appear legitimate and send them to victims ' existing email addresses , spoofing the source if needed . ", "the emails contain document attachments that exploit vulnerabilities in common software like microsoft office . ", "if the attachment is opened , it installs a cactuspete backdoor like bisonal or doublet on the target system . ", "the malware connects to a hardcoded command and control server address to receive instructions . ", "it exfiltrates detailed system information and files of interest back to the c2 server . ", "the hackers use remote access tools distributed by the malware to explore the network and spread laterally . ", "they harvest credentials via keyloggers and credential stealing tools . ", "the credentials and internal access are leveraged to compromise sensitive data such as military , diplomatic , or technology information . ", "the malware and infrastructure are continuously updated to enable persistent access to breached networks ."]
["hermit is distributed via sms messages impersonating legitimate companies . ", "users install what they believe is an app from a trusted source . ", "hermit displays a real company 's website and decrypts its configuration . ", "it performs checks to avoid detection and analysis . ", "hermit contacts its c2 server to download modules with surveillance capabilities . ", "it exploits the device for root access if possible to enable more data collection . ", "modules exfiltrate data like contacts , audio recordings , notifications , etc. back to the c", "8 . "]
["send spearphishing document exploiting a vulnerability to drop initial malware . ", "first stage malware resolves apis , checks process name , and drops signed symantec binary and launcher dll . ", "launcher dll loads and patches windows apis to disable event logging . ", "dropper writes encrypted shellcode for next stage in windows event logs . ", "launcher gathers shellcode from event logs and injects next stage malware into dllhost process . ", "next stage malware connects to c2 servers for commands . ", "additional tools like cobalt strike and silentbreak used for reconnaissance and lateral movement . ", "final rat payload deployed , often using process injection to avoid detection . ", "rat exfiltrates data and can download more malware . ", "infrastructure utilizes vps services to host c2 and malware ."]
["compromise bignox update infrastructure to replace legitimate updates with malware . ", "noxplayer client requests update info from bignox api server . ", "api server responds with update url pointing to malicious update . ", "noxplayer downloader retrieves and executes malicious update . ", "malware executes , establishes persistence , and beacons to c2 server . ", "c2 server sends commands to perform surveillance activities . ", "malware exfiltrates data over c2 channel . ", "process repeated with new tailored malicious updates to selected victims ."]
["october 2021 - phishing campaign sends links to spoofed mid portal sites to harvest credentials ", "november 2021 - malicious links lead to covid - 19 themed files impersonating russian vaccine registration software ", "malicious software installs a loader that retrieves malware from a command and control server ", "december 2021 - threat actor compromises mid email account ", "malicious emails sent from compromised account containing trojanized happy new year screensaver file ", "screensaver displays holiday message and runs lightweight loader in background ", "loader retrieves malware modules from command and control servers ", "malware gathers system info and running tasks from infected machines ", "malware attempts to download additional payloads from command and control servers ", "malware provides persistent access to compromised machines for cyber espionage activities"]
["the threat actor gains initial access to the ukrainian software development company 's systems through unspecified means . ", "the attacker drops the gomet backdoor onto compromised machines . ", "gomet connects to the hardcoded command and control server at 111.90.139 [ . ] ", "4 . ", "5 . ", "6 . ", "7 . ", "8 . "]
["the attackers distribute a malicious excel macro document via email . ", "the macro executes soursnack malware which gathers system info and contacts a c2 server . ", "soursnack decrypts and executes the lightrope malware payload . ", "lightrope establishes persistence and installs dnscat for dns tunneling . ", "the attackers use dnscat and other tools like litemanager for remote access and data exfiltration . ", "additional payloads like ntdsdumpex are used for active directory data theft . ", "ngrok is leveraged for tunneling and accessing internal systems . ", "the malware is signed with valid digital certificates for disguise . ", "network traffic is tunneled through the dns protocol to avoid detection . ", "recommended defenses include filtering ports , monitoring dns , ensuring centralized av management , and enabling remote access for detection and response ."]
["andariel compromises internet - facing web services like weblogic servers using exploits for vulnerabilities such as cve -2017-", "2 . ", "3 . ", "4 . ", "5 . ", "6 . ", "7 . ", "8 . "]
["the attackers registered the c2 domain adobesys [ . ] com using an email associated with previous attacks . ", "they compromised targets using the httpbrowser malware variant , which had low av detection . ", "the malware sent system info to the c2 servers and allowed remote access . ", "the attackers likely used strategic web compromises or spearphishing to infect specific targets with access to drone and energy management ip . ", "they maintained persistent access to steal ip , communications , and documents to benefit chinese companies ."]
["phishing emails with weaponized office documents are sent to deliver the initial portdoor malware . ", "portdoor and multiple backdoors like ncctrojan are installed on compromised systems . ", "the ladon framework is used for network scanning and credential theft . ", "additional systems are compromised and domain controllers accessed to steal hashes . ", "data is exfiltrated from the network to command and control servers . ", "infrastructure analysis points to a chinese threat actor likely being behind the attacks ."]
["the attackers first gain initial access by exploiting vulnerabilities in vpn appliances like citrix netscaler or fortinet . ", "they use tools like frpc and ngrok to create reverse proxy tunnels between compromised machines and their c2 servers . ", "the attackers install web shells on the victim networks to maintain persistent access . ", "they create local admin accounts with hardcoded passwords like \" kharpedar123 ! \" for lateral movement . ", "post-compromise , they use remote access tools like rdp to connect to compromised hosts . ", "they exfiltrate data from the victim networks . ", "in some cases , they deploy ransomware like pay2key to encrypt files and extort payments . ", "they threaten to leak stolen data on underground sites to pressure victims into paying ."]
["spread via usb drives using the lnk exploit . ", "use separate exploit to escalate privileges . ", "establish persistence and implant backdoor . ", "exfiltrate reconnaissance data from air - gapped systems via usb . ", "send commands and additional malware via hidden usb storage ."]
["the threat actor sends phishing emails with links to zip files hosted on compromised sites . ", "the victim downloads and executes the zip file containing a cozyduke dropper disguised as a self - extracting rar archive . ", "the dropper extracts and executes the cozyduke components along with an encrypted configuration file . ", "the cozyduke main component dll establishes command and control communication to receive tasks from the threat actor 's server . ", "cozyduke can load additional modules sent by the c2 server to extend its capabilities . ", "it can also drop other malware tools , scripts , and executables as instructed by the c", "7 . ", "8 . ", "9 . "]
["users are redirected to rig landing pages via malicious iframes injected into legitimate websites or malvertising . ", "the landing page probes the victim 's browser and delivers an exploit , such as for a flash vulnerability . ", "the exploit kit makes a separate get request to download the malicious payload onto the victim 's machine . ", "the payload executes and installs spambot malware disguised as legitimate windows services . ", "the spambot malware sends spam emails from the infected machine ."]
["gain initial access through spearphishing , exploits , etc. ", "use tools like mimikatz and pwdump to extract credentials from compromised hosts ", "move laterally with atnow utility to run commands on other hosts ", "use remshell backdoor for command and control ", "exfiltrate data with custom utilities or web shells ", "maintain persistence using scheduled tasks , services , additional backdoors ", "pivot to further systems using collected credentials ", "target critical servers and systems like domain controllers ", "use encryption , custom protocols , etc. to evade detection"]
["a malicious dll loader is used to load the encrypted waterbear payloads . ", "the first payload injects api hooking code into a targeted security product process . ", "the api hooking code hides the malware 's presence by manipulating the zwopenprocess and getextendedtcptable apis . ", "the second payload is a typical waterbear backdoor that communicates with command and control servers ."]
["attacker gains physical or network access to install atm malware . ", "malware intercepts card data or dispenses cash without authorization . ", "money mules collect dispensed cash or use stolen card data for withdrawals ."]
["the malware installer drops and installs a malicious chrome extension for stealthy crypto - mining . ", "it extracts the extension to local chrome folders and sets up auto - execution . ", "the installer drops the iron backdoor dll and achieves persistence . ", "the backdoor installs xagent crypto - miner or iron ransomware . ", "it steals cryptocurrency wallet files by searching for wallet signatures . ", "the malware hijacks crypto transactions by replacing wallet addresses in the clipboard . ", "the backdoor uses a pastebin account and proxies for command and control . ", "anti-analysis measures like anti-vm checks avoid detection . ", "the malware leverages stolen hackingteam code for stealth ."]
["the attacker compromises websites supportive of the north korean government and injects them with exploits for either cve -2018-8174 or cve -2019-", "2 . ", "3 . ", "4 . ", "5 . ", "6 . ", "7 . ", "8 . ", "9 . ", "10 . ", "11 . "]
["exploration - collecting information about the target company to develop a plausible social engineering scheme . ", "infection - infecting the corporate network via phishing emails with malicious attachments or links . drive - by downloads can infect automatically . ", "exploration and implementation - downloading remote access tools to gain system administrator credentials . ", "money theft - accessing financial systems to initiate fraudulent money transfers or make purchases with stolen payment cards ."]
["in august 2016 , csirt received reports of android malware spreading in libya via telegram . ", "the malware was first discovered after a high - profile telegram account was compromised from an ip address in spain . ", "the attackers used the compromised account to spread malware disguised as a voice message to the account 's contacts . ", "the malware was injected into a legitimate android app called urlshortener . ", "the malware communicates with a c2 server at winmeif.myq-see.com and exfiltrates extensive data from devices . ", "csirt believes the malware has ties to known android rats like jsocket and alienspy . ", "csirt sinkholed the malware and analyzed the attacker infrastructure dating back to september ", "8 . "]
["the hackers created fake personas on social media platforms like facebook , twitter , and linkedin . ", "they used the fake profiles to connect with targets including us government and military officials . ", "after making connections , the hackers sent spearphishing emails to targets . ", "the phishing emails aimed to get users to click malicious links and enter credentials into fake pages . ", "some phishing emails also delivered custom malware capable of exfiltrating data . ", "the malware and stolen credentials provided access to sensitive accounts and data . ", "the social engineering focused campaign operated undetected since ", "8 . "]
["the attacker compromises a system and installs the agent.btz or comrat rat . ", "the rat collects system information and data from the compromised host . ", "the attacker remotely controls the rat to further interact with the system . ", "the rat is used to execute commands , upload / download files , and hijack communications . ", "the attacker leverages the rat access to infiltrate further into the network . ", "eventually , the rat installation provides long - term backdoor access to the threat actor ."]
["a trojanized cryptocurrency app esilet is distributed . ", "esilet 's javascript code downloads the nukesped malware . ", "nukesped persists as a launch agent on the system . ", "it connects to command and control servers to receive tasks . ", "nukesped can survey the system , run commands , read / write files based on commands ."]
["send spearphishing emails with weaponized office documents exploiting dde or vulnerabilities . ", "gain initial access through watering hole compromises or supply chain attacks . ", "use droppers and loaders to deploy sysupdate or hyperbro malware . ", "malware beacons to c2 and exfiltrates data . ", "pandora rootkit deployed to hide malware activities . ", "operators interact with victim through backdoors to further access . ", "frp proxy tool used on linux victims for tunneling . ", "continuous re-compromise of targets using upgraded malware ."]
["the attacker distributes the alchimist c2 server on a compromised machine . ", "alchimist extracts its embedded web interface and insekt payloads / assets at runtime . ", "the attacker accesses the alchimist web ui to configure an insekt payload with c2 and other settings . ", "alchimist dynamically builds and delivers the insekt payload to the attacker . ", "the attacker distributes the insekt trojan to victims using techniques like malicious documents . ", "insekt runs on compromised machines and connects to the alchimist c", "7 . ", "8 . ", "9 . ", "10 . "]
["the attacker creates a malicious xll file , often using a framework like excel - dna . ", "the xll implements exports like xlautoopen that will execute code when opened . ", "the attacker emails the victim an xll file , disguised as an invoice , report , etc. ", "the victim receives the email and opens the attached xll file . ", "excel displays a warning prompt about the xll containing code . ", "if the victim allows / enables the code , the xlautoopen export executes . ", "the xlautoopen code typically downloads next stage payloads . ", "the downloaded malware executes , compromising the system . ", "the malware establishes persistence and connects to a c2 server . ", "the attacker can then leverage the malware for further objectives ."]
["the attackers send phishing emails with weaponized office document attachments containing exploits . ", "if the exploit is successful , a first stage shellcode decodes and launches a second stage shellcode . ", "the second stage shellcode decodes and installs a dll backdoor module from the document . ", "the dll backdoor is configured to contact an external c2 server to receive commands . ", "the malware establishes persistence via a run registry key to execute on user login . ", "the backdoor can download additional modules or tools from the c2 server . ", "it uses http requests with encryption to communicate and exfiltrate data to the c2 server . ", "alternatively , it may use poison ivy as a backup rat if the main c2 communication fails ."]
["the attack starts with a phishing email containing a malicious . zip file as an attachment . the zip file contains an executable dropper . ", "when the victim opens and executes the dropper , it displays a russian holiday - themed image as a decoy . in the background , it contacts a command and control server to download the next stage payload , which is a cab file . ", "the dropper extracts the cab file , which contains a batch script , konni rat executable , and configuration file . ", "the batch script waits for the cab to decompress then executes the konni rat installer . ", "the installer moves the rat files into system32 and registers the rat as a windows service to load at startup . ", "the konni rat gathers system info , browsing history , processes , and user details , archives the data , and encrypts it . ", "the rat exfiltrates the encrypted data to the command and control server . it can also receive additional commands from the c2 ."]
["spear phishing emails are sent containing links to fake resumes . ", "the resume pages load beef exploitation scripts . ", "beef modules are used to exploit the visiting victim . ", "malware is delivered that communicates with c2 servers on ports 53 , 80 , 443 , ", "5 . "]
["turla operators gain an initial foothold on the victim 's system through means like spearphishing or watering hole attacks . ", "they use this access to install and deploy the comrat malware , often using a powershell script . ", "comrat installs itself persistently using a scheduled task to regularly launch its orchestrator component . ", "the orchestrator injects the communications module into the default web browser process . ", "comrat connects to its command and control server over http or via the gmail web interface . ", "the operators send commands to gather sensitive documents from the victim 's systems . ", "comrat compresses and encrypts any collected documents . ", "the documents are exfiltrated out to cloud storage services through protocols like https . ", "turla operators retrieve the documents from the cloud services and can maintain persistent access to the victim . ", "if needed , additional malware tools can be deployed on the infected system for further control . ", "comrat is kept continually updated via its command and control channels ."]
["bluenoroff sends a phishing email with a weaponized attachment , typically a malicious word doc . ", "the doc connects to a remote server and downloads the initial payload , an executable that bypasses uac . ", "the executable fetches and executes a downloader script written in visual basic script or batch . ", "the downloader script executes legitimate windows commands and binaries to evade detection . it fetches the next - stage payload from a command - and - control server . ", "the downloaded payload is a dll that is injected into the explorer process . it contains an encrypted configuration that fetches the final malware using curl . ", "the final payload is a backdoor that gives the attacker remote access . it is similar to malware used in previous bluenoroff campaigns . ", "the backdoor allows the attacker to fingerprint the victim system , install additional malware , and move laterally . ", "in some cases , the initial doc attachment contains macros that install a shortcut to a malware downloader . when opened , the shortcut executes the infection routine . ", "to bypass motw warnings , iso and vhd images containing scripts are used instead of office docs . scripts fetch and run malware from urls . ", "bluenoroff registers lookalike domains impersonating financial companies to host malware . targets in japan are of particular interest currently ."]
["the attacker compromises the aerospace company 's website and adds an exploit for cve -2015-", "2 . ", "3 . ", "27 . ", "the c2 server can send commands like upload / download files , execute commands , etc. ", "isspace uses a dll side - loading technique to gain persistence on the infected system . ", "the malware continues communicating with the c2 server to exfiltrate data ."]
["the threat actor spreads the dtrack malware executable through unspecified means . ", "dtrack unpacks its payload in multiple stages using encryption and obfuscation . ", "the first stage code retrieves the second stage shellcode from the executable . ", "the shellcode decrypts the third stage - another shellcode and the final payload . ", "the third stage shellcode locates the encryption key and decrypts the final payload dll . ", "the dll is loaded into explorer.exe using process hollowing . ", "dtrack contacts its c2 servers and can execute commands uploaded by the attacker . ", "the attacker uses dtrack to move laterally and compromise additional systems on the network ."]
["the threat actor group energetic bear / dragonfly compromises delta electronics plcs during or after production . ", "the malware is embedded in the plc software produced by delta electronics . ", "a front company called delta elektroniks is set up to distribute the infected plcs . ", "delta elektroniks sells the compromised plcs to customers in the energy sector . ", "the customers install the infected plcs in their operational networks , likely unaware of the malware . ", "once installed , the embedded energetic bear / dragonfly malware provides covert access into the customer 's critical infrastructure and scada systems . ", "initially , the access is used for cyber espionage and intelligence gathering . ", "over the longer term , the threat actors could leverage their access to carry out disruptive or destructive attacks . ", "the supply chain compromise via delta elektroniks distribution enables energetic bear / dragonfly to more easily infiltrate sensitive critical infrastructure networks ."]
["phishing emails with weaponized office docs are sent to victims . ", "macros in the docs fetch scripts from blogspot and pastebin . ", "scripts disable security products and deliver revengerat . ", "revengerat configures command and control communication . ", "the attacker interacts with the victim through the rat to steal data . ", "stolen data is likely used for additional exploitation or sold on dark web markets ."]
["phishing emails are sent impersonating ukrainian government agencies , containing links to download \" critical updates \" ", "the emails link to a website hosting \" bitdefenderwindowsupdatepackage.exe \" ", "the exe file executes \" alt.exe \" bootloader ", "\" alt.exe \" downloads \" one.exe \" and \" dropper.exe \" from a discord url ", "\" one.exe \" executes and infects the system with cobalt strike beacon remote access malware ", "\" dropper.exe \" decodes and executes a go langauge exe file , function still being analyzed ", "cobalt strike beacon allows remote control of the infected system ", "the exe files are protected by themida packing / obfuscation ", "indicators of compromise like file hashes , urls , and graphic images can help detect the attack ", "the phishing campaign is attributed to threat actor uac - 0056 with medium confidence"]
["sent spearphishing emails with word doc containing macro that downloads initial malware . ", "macro executes to download ieupdate.exe malware . ", "ieupdate.exe communicates with c2 on dropbox to download additional payloads . ", "further malware like hvncengine.dll and shellengine.dll enable remote access , command execution , and data exfiltration . ", "malware uses process injection , disables security products , and disguises traffic to evade detection . ", "finally , sensitive documents and data are collected from compromised systems ."]
["spear phishing email delivers first stage dropper ", "dropper installs launcher and main skinnyboy implant ", "implant exfiltrates system info and retrieves final payload ", "final payload dll injected into memory ", "persistent access and control over victim system"]
["victims receive a spear phishing email containing a malicious word document as an attachment . ", "if the victim enables macros in the word document , obfuscated malicious macro code is triggered . ", "the macro code decodes strings containing a pastebin url and a powershell script . ", "the powershell script downloads base64 encoded content from the pastebin url . ", "the base64 content is decoded into an executable malware file and dropped on the system . ", "the dropped executable malware ( njrat ) is executed via the powershell script . ", "njrat connects to a command and control server , sends system info , and allows the attacker to control the infected system ."]
["the attackers compromised the network and installed the first backdoor file oci.dll . ", "oci.dll intercepted network traffic and allowed running arbitrary code received from the attacker . ", "later , the second oci.dll replaced the first one to decrypt and run another malware component in memory . ", "the malware provided access to intercept and exfiltrate data , and install further backdoors . ", "avast discovered the malware but was unable to get a response from the organization to investigate further ."]
["the nsa 's tao group performs reconnaissance on potential targets . ", "targets are filtered based on vulnerability , then sessions are hijacked via mitm attacks . ", "foxacid scans the target system and chooses the optimal exploit . ", "shellcode is injected to deliver the spyware payload . ", "if the exploit succeeds , foxacid installs persistent malware based on the target 's value . ", "implants like seconddate and validator enable long - term monitoring and data exfiltration . ", "wrappers like direscallop ensure malware persistence even with protections like deepfreeze . ", "tao manages foxacid operations via a web - based project tracker interface . ", "infrastructure consists of regional servers for spam , mitm attacks , and post-exploitation . ", "custom filters tailor each stage of the attack chain based on reconnaissance data ."]
["the attack starts with phishing emails containing weaponized documents as attachments . ", "the documents contain macros that download and execute a malicious loader executable . ", "the loader downloads the pierogi backdoor executable and saves it to disk , such as c : \\ programdata . ", "pierogi adds a shortcut in the startup folder to achieve persistence . ", "pierogi collects system information and communicates with a command and control server . ", "the c2 server can send pierogi commands to further exploit the victim 's machine . ", "pierogi can exfiltrate data like screenshots back to the c2 server ."]
["gorgon apt sends phishing emails with covid - 19 themed word documents to targets in the msme sector . ", "the documents contain an exploit for cve -2017-11882 to execute malicious code . ", "the code drops a visual basic script named servercrypted.vbs . ", "the vbscript executes a powershell command to download additional payloads . ", "the first payload is an injector dll . ", "the second payload is the agent tesla remote access trojan ( rat ) . ", "the injector dll loads itself into memory using powershell . ", "agent tesla is injected into the regasm.exe process . ", "agent tesla steals sensitive data and screenshots from the compromised system . ", "the data is exfiltrated via smtp by agent tesla to gorgon apt operators ."]
["the malware loader is distributed via pirated software installers from a malware - as - a-service platform . ", "the loader installs the main pseudomanuscrypt module , which adds itself as a service to persist on the system . ", "the module steals data like keystrokes , screenshots , microphone recordings , vpn credentials , etc. and sends it to a command server . ", "the command server can send back commands to perform additional malicious actions like disabling security software ."]
["the malware is delivered to the target system through unspecified means . ", "the malware establishes persistence by registering as a service or adding itself to startup . ", "it collects system info and sends it to the c2 server encrypted . ", "the c2 responds with encrypted commands hidden in html . ", "the malware can then download files , execute commands , take screenshots , etc. based on the c2 instructions ."]
["infects victim 's system through compromised siemens step 7 project files . ", "fingerprints the plc system by parsing human designated symbol labels for devices . ", "identifies the target is a siemens 417 plc controlling uranium enrichment centrifuges . ", "constructs a special data block db8061 to conduct the attack . ", "monitors for the \" download \" command to rebuild db8061 if needed . ", "enters attack states when enrichment process is at steady state for over 30 days . ", "begins replaying normal sensor input signals to hide changes . ", "closes valves controlling uf6 gas flow to centrifuges in cascades . ", "opens valves to get low pressure sensor reading from attacked cascade . ", "waits for pressure buildup before proceeding . ", "further opens valves to maximize pressure . ", "waits several minutes while preventing any state changes . ", "resets plc attack code to return to normal monitoring ."]
["the threat actor spoofs an iranian military news website to distribute a macro-enabled word document . ", "the document 's macro downloads and executes a . net dns backdoor malware . ", "the malware configures a malicious dns server under the actor 's control . ", "it generates a bot id from the victim 's username . ", "the malware sends dns queries containing the bot id to the malicious dns server . ", "the dns server responds with commands encoded in dns records . ", "the backdoor can download files , upload files , and execute system commands based on the commands . ", "it encodes and exfiltrates command output in dns requests back to the attacker 's server ."]
["a first stage malware like skipper drops the gazer payload on victims . ", "the gazer loader injects the orchestrator module into explorer.exe . ", "the orchestrator decrypts config data and loads other modules from resources . ", "modules gather recon data , steal browser files , spread via usb , etc. ", "the communication module injects into a browser process for internet access . ", "the c2 server sends encrypted commands which modules execute . ", "data theft results are encrypted and exfiltrated back to the c", "8 . "]
["threat actors distribute spear phishing emails with pdf document attachments to targets . ", "the pdfs contain exploits that install the hacking team rcs spyware if opened . ", "the rcs implant connects to command and control servers controlled by the threat actors . ", "threat actors use the rcs remote access capabilities to extract data from the infected system and network ."]
["the attack starts with a spear phishing email containing a malicious office document attachment . ", "the document macro reaches out to download a remote template containing additional macro code . ", "the macro writes and executes shellcode from an init file to setup persistence and run the next stage loader . ", "the loader dll sideloads a legitimate windows binary like cmdl32.exe . ", "the loader decrypts and executes shellcode from the init file . ", "the shellcode injects into and executes the nimbda loader module within notepad.exe . ", "nimbda decrypts and loads the next stage - an obfuscated spinner backdoor executable . ", "spinner injects into msiexec.exe and collects system info to beacon back to its command and control server . ", "spinner can receive additional modules or payloads from the attacker controlled server . ", "the final payload provides remote access , exfiltration , and further capabilities to the attacker ."]
["the attacker sends a phishing email containing a malicious . zip or . docx file to the victim . ", "if the victim opens the attachment on a macos system , the osx_dok malware is installed . ", "osx_dok shows a fake osx software update screen to gain admin access . ", "the malware installs malicious certificates and proxies on the system to perform a mitm attack . ", "when the user visits a target banking / financial site , their connection is hijacked and redirected to a fake login page controlled by the attacker . ", "the victim enters account credentials on the fake page , which are secretly sent to the attacker 's server . ", "the attacker can then log into the real banking site using the stolen credentials to steal money or sensitive data . ", "osx_dok can also download additional payloads , executables , and scripts from its command and control server . ", "the malware establishes persistence on the infected system to continue monitoring and data theft . ", "network traffic is redirected through tor to evade detection and obscure the attacker 's location ."]
["the group identifies targets with access to intelligence related to foreign policy and security in eastern europe and south caucasus regions . ", "credential phishing emails are sent pretending to be google , claiming the target 's account will be deleted unless credentials are entered on a fake login page . ", "if credentials are entered , the group gains access to the target 's email account . ", "the group compromises other relevant email accounts and monitors target email communications . ", "spear phishing emails are crafted to appear they are from compromised accounts familiar to the target . the emails have document attachments containing malware . ", "if the target opens the attachment and enables the malware , the scout tool from hackingteam galileo installs on the system . ", "the malware gathers system information and sends it to the group 's command and control server . ", "the group uses the malware to explore the target 's system and network , stealing data and installing additional tools . ", "the compromised access allows the group to monitor target communications and steal intelligence on foreign policy related to regions of interest . ", "the group continues to set up new phishing infrastructure regularly to pursue more targets ."]
["spearphishing emails distribute weaponized office docs to initial targets . ", "documents exploit flaws to execute shellcode and download the gauss payload . ", "the main shellhw component installs and configures the other gauss modules . ", "modules like godel , usbdir , gauss , etc. collect system and browser data . ", "the gauss module steals lebanese bank account credentials . ", "data is encrypted and exfiltrated to the c2 servers over https . ", "the usb payload infects removable drives and extracts data from other systems . ", "an encrypted payload has unknown functionality when executed from infected usb drives . ", "c2 servers can push new modules or commands to compromised hosts ."]
["apt32 sends spear phishing emails with weaponized office document attachments . ", "the documents contain vb macros created using the strikesuit gift toolkit . ", "when victims enable macros , the malware executes . ", "macros use powershell scripts and scheduled tasks to download additional payloads . ", "payloads inject shellcode into other processes using techniques like process hollowing . ", "shellcode decrypts and executes final backdoor or rat payloads . ", "backdoors communicate with command servers to exfiltrate data . ", "strikesuit gift macros collect system info , record audio / video , log keystrokes , etc. ", "obfuscation routines in strikesuit gift hide strings and api calls . ", "macros use randomized strings and fake words to blend in and evade detection ."]
["ransomware deployment - roadsweep ransomware used to encrypt systems at albanian government organizations . ", "data theft - documents and data allegedly stolen from compromised systems . ", "defacement - disruptive activity taken down albanian government websites . ", "public leaks - stolen documents and ransomware execution video leaked publicly via the \" homeland justice \" front . ", "wiping - possible use of zeroclear wiper to corrupt systems . ", "attribution - links found between the activity and iranian threat actors based on technical evidence ."]
["compromise system firmware and implant rogue uefi module containing moonbounce . ", "rogue firmware hooks legitimate boot services functions like allocatepool and exitbootservices . ", "hooks execute shellcode during boot that injects a kernel driver . ", "driver injects malware stager into svchost.exe process . ", "stager reaches out to c2 server to download next stage payload . ", "payload executes in user mode persistence achieved across reboots . ", "moonbounce cleans up traces and continues operating stealthily ."]
["initial phishing campaign targets officials attending an airshow , delivering malware . ", "malware provides initial foothold on systems . ", "lateral movement through the network to compromise additional systems . ", "exploitation of vulnerabilities like ms14 - 068 to escalate privileges . ", "compromise of active directory and highly classified enclaves . ", "deployment of custom malware like chopstick rat for spying and data exfiltration . ", "use of techniques like credential dumping to maintain persistence in the environment ."]
["the attacker sends a spear - phishing email with a malicious pdf exploiting cve -2011-", "2 . ", "3 . ", "4 . ", "5 . ", "6 . ", "7 . ", "8 . ", "9 . ", "10 . ", "11 . ", "12 . "]
["financial websites are compromised to direct visitors to download malware . ", "malicious javascript on compromised sites loads exploits targeting silverlight and flash . ", "exploits deliver first stage malware that gathers system info . ", "second stage malware receives commands from a c2 server . ", "whitelisted ip ranges indicate banks in specific countries are targeted . ", "malware allows compromise of financial networks , with an unknown end goal ."]
["the attack starts by sending the target a phishing message containing a malicious link . ", "when the user clicks the link , an exploit chain called trident is triggered : stage 1 : a webkit exploit ( cve -2016-4655 ) for initial code execution . stage 2 : kernel info leak ( cve -2016-4656 ) to bypass kernel aslr . stage 3 : kernel exploits ( cve -2016-4657 ) to jailbreak the device . ", "the jailbreak installs the pegasus spyware persistently and hides its icon . ", "the spyware exfiltrates data like messages , contacts , and passwords . ", "it can record audio , video , intercept calls and texts in real - time . ", "pegasus uses encryption , obfuscation and stealth to avoid detection and can self - destruct if threatened ."]
["spearphishing emails sent with hwp document exploits ", "documents exploit vulnerability to install oniondog malware ", "malware retrieves other malware like usb worms from c2 servers ", "usb worms infect connected devices and send data to c2 ", "backdoors allow persistent access to compromised systems ", "data exfiltrated from targeted organizations over encrypted c2 channels"]
["bemstour establishes an smb connection to the victim and sends malformed packets to trigger a type confusion vulnerability , similar to eternalromance . ", "this results in an out - of - bounds write primitive that bemstour utilizes to overwrite data . ", "bemstour uses a 0 - day info leak vulnerability to disclose the address of a kernel object called ccb . ", "using the write primitive from step 2 , bemstour overwrites a function pointer in the ccb to point to shellcode . ", "when the smb connection is closed , the overwritten destructor function is called , executing bemstour 's shellcode . ", "the shellcode decrypts and executes doublepulsar , setting up a hook for invalid smb commands . ", "further payloads can be sent via smb and injected into processes using doublepulsar ."]
["the malware gains disk access by opening the physical drive as a file . ", "it first overwrites the volume boot record ( vbr ) location at sector 56 , which is the location on xp systems . ", "it then continues overwriting data in a loop using 512 byte patterns on xp and 1023 byte patterns on windows ", "4 . ", "5 . ", "6 . ", "7 . ", "8 . ", "9 . ", "10 . "]
["attackers compromise the website of the polish financial supervision authority . ", "the website includes scripts loading exploits targeting browser plugins like silverlight and flash . ", "visiting employees of polish banks receive and are infected by the exploits . ", "exploits download a reconnaissance tool to gather system information . ", "if the system is interesting , a second stage malware executable is manually triggered . ", "the executable decrypts and injects a rat malware installed as a service dll . ", "a config file provides encoded c2 server domains that are decoded at runtime . ", "the rat malware connects to the c2 and can receive commands to carry out tasks on the system . ", "an injector tool was also used to load malicious dlls into explorer.exe . ", "various tactics like encryption , whitelisting , fileless injection , etc. are used across the attack chain . ", "success of the attack provided access to internal bank networks ."]
["threat actors create the welcome chat spyware app and distribute it outside the official google play store , promoting it as a secure messaging app . ", "targets download and install welcome chat from a website in arabic . ", "welcome chat requests intrusive permissions from victims needed for its chat functionality . ", "the app covertly collects and exfiltrates extensive data like messages , contacts , location to a command and control server . ", "collected data is found unsecured on the server , freely accessible to anyone . ", "threat actors likely access the server to collect stolen data for espionage purposes . ", "new versions of the welcome chat spyware continue to be distributed for updated surveillance on targets ."]
["installer runs to download and execute obfuscated gold dragon malware . ", "gold dragon establishes persistence and waits for additional payloads . ", "xrat remote access trojan downloaded and executed via process hollowing . ", "xrat allows attacker remote control and data exfiltration capabilities . ", "uninstaller tool cleans up infection artifacts from the system ."]
["the threat actor obtains username and password for the victim 's active directory server . ", "they modify the active directory group policy object to create scheduled tasks that execute malware on all domain machines . ", "the scheduled tasks use smb and iis to copy the ransomware loader \" lc.tmp \" to other hosts . ", "powershell commands execute the ransomware loader on infected hosts . ", "the loader decrypts and installs the cobalt strike payload . ", "the attacker uses cobalt strike for lateral movement and reconnaissance for months prior to deploying ransomware ."]
["spear phishing emails send self - extracting rar files containing downexecute malware and decoy documents . ", "downexecute calls home to c2 servers to report new infections and await commands . ", "c2 servers provide links to download additional malware like poisonivy and xtremerat . ", "second stage malware provides fuller remote access , exfiltration channels , etc. ", "attackers use access to conduct reconnaissance on targets ' systems and data . ", "collected intelligence guides development of custom capabilities to meet objectives ."]
["nobelium gains admin access to an ad fs server . ", "they drop a malicious dll loader and encrypted backdoor dll . ", "the loader hijacks dll search order to execute instead of the legitimate dll . ", "it decrypts and loads the backdoor dll into the ad fs service process . ", "the backdoor sets up http listeners for specific uri patterns as commands . ", "commands exfiltrate the ad fs certificates and configuration database . ", "commands can also download and execute assemblies or source code . ", "the backdoor leverages ad fs apis to retrieve and decrypt certificates . ", "exfiltrated data is concealed as fake image files before sending to attacker . ", "the backdoor provides persistent access and monitoring of the ad fs server ."]
["the attacker sends a phishing email with a malicious excel document to the victim . ", "the excel document contains macros that execute when opened . ", "the macros drop and execute a downloader called office_update.exe . ", "office_update.exe fetches additional scripts and executables from a command and control server . ", "a plugin downloader called wlidsvcc.exe is installed and retrieves plugins for keylogging , file listing , system info collection , and data exfiltration . ", "wlidsvcc.exe communicates with the c2 server to receive commands and execute plugins . ", "the keylogger plugin logs keystrokes and window names . ", "the file listing plugin searches disks and collects filenames . ", "the system info plugin gathers details on the infected system . ", "the data exfiltration plugins upload collected data and files to the c2 server . ", "persistence mechanisms like registry modifications and startup scripts are created ."]
["actor sends spearphishing email with password - protected rar archive containing malicious word doc . ", "word doc macro checks for antivirus and sets registry key to disable macro security in word . ", "macro decrypts and executes next stage vba payload containing shellcode . ", "shellcode fetches next stage payload from remote server . ", "initial powershell payload achieves persistence and contacts c2 server . ", "c2 server sends commands to execute on victim system for exfiltration , screenshots , etc. ", "actor uses credentials stolen from victim to spearphish associates . ", "additional payloads like windows executable and android apps deployed for extended surveillance . ", "malware exfiltrates documents , messages , contacts , and other sensitive data from victims . ", "actor monitors infections via control panel and issues new commands . ", "updated malware variants deployed over time to evade detection ."]
["platinum profiles potential targets in south and southeast asia , focusing on government entities . ", "spear phishing emails are sent to specific users with malicious attachments . ", "attachments contain exploits for undisclosed zero - day vulnerabilities . ", "exploits allow executing platinum 's custom backdoor malware like dipsind or jpin . ", "backdoors connect to command and control servers on compromised infrastructure . ", "platinum can sustain access to compromised networks undetected for years . ", "various tools are deployed for credential theft , lateral movement , reconnaissance , and exfiltration . ", "new versions of backdoors and tools are continually developed . ", "infrastructure analysis reveals details of domains , ips , dynamic dns used for command and control . ", "forensic artifacts provided for detection including yara rules , file hashes , and network iocs ."]
["on january 25 , 2017 , the attackers sent spear - phishing emails purporting to be from the company hidrofersa to targets at mazagon dock shipbuilders limited ( mdl ) . ", "the emails contained excel attachments with malicious macros . ", "if the victim enabled macros , the excel file would execute a macro to download and install the keybase malware . ", "the macro used obfuscation and junk code to avoid detection and analysis . ", "the macro decoded a powershell script that downloaded the keybase executable file from a compromised university website . ", "the powershell script executed a uac bypass technique to run the malware with high privileges . ", "the malware established persistence by copying itself to the all users profile and adding a registry key to ensure it runs on startup . ", "the malware tracked user activity like keystrokes and screenshots but did not immediately connect to its command and control server . ", "after a long sleep time , the malware connected to the c2 server tripleshop [ . ] id hosted on a server in indonesia . ", "the malware sent all the tracked user activity and screenshots to the c2 server . ", "analysis suggests the attack originated from a pakistan - based company , indicating a possible state - sponsored espionage campaign ."]
["the attackers distribute malicious android apk files , often masquerading as legitimate apps like banks , social networks , photo services , etc. ", "if the victim installs one of the malicious apps , it requests access to permissions like reading / sending sms , contacts access , etc. ", "the infected app connects to one of the geost c&c servers and php files . it sends information like sms messages , contacts , location , etc back to the c&c . ", "the botnet operators log into the c&c dashboard to view all the collected personal data from victims , including sms history , bank balances , names , addresses , etc. ", "the c&c panel provides options for the botmasters to target specific banks , manage spam campaigns , and possibly perform financial fraud by abusing the collected bank account information . ", "the extensive personal data harvested from victims provides the botmasters with information to aid social engineering attacks or identity theft ."]
["the attackers send emails with attachments or links to files that appear legitimate but have a . exe extension . ", "the attachments or links contain themes of interest to potential middle eastern victims as a form of social engineering . ", "if opened , the files install the h - worm malware as a first stage backdoor . ", "the h - worm malware is delivered via shortened urls or domains impersonating middle eastern media . ", "later stages use the installed h - worm access to deliver additional malware like the njrat remote access trojan . ", "njrat provides persistent access and control over the compromised system . ", "the command and control infrastructure uses dynamic domains hosted on home internet connections in the west bank . ", "over 200 varied malware samples were linked to the simple c2 infrastructure . ", "earlier attacks were opportunistic , later attacks more targeted against specific groups / individuals . ", "the attacks rely on basic scripts and obfuscation rather than advanced exploits . ", "the motivations appear to be politically driven espionage rather than financial . ", "the tools and targets share connections with the gaza hacker team . ", "despite low sophistication , these attacks enable spying and could enable loss of life ."]
["inception sends a reconnaissance document to fingerprint the target 's system . ", "days later , they send a second spearphishing email with an exploit document that retrieves and opens a remote rtf file . ", "the rtf file exploits a vulnerability and executes a loader dll on the system . ", "the loader dll decrypts and injects the main payload dll into memory . ", "the payload gathers system info , executes plugins , and communicates with c2 servers on cloud storage providers via webdav . ", "various plugins are used for surveillance , stealing files , credentials , browser data , etc. ", "compromised routers and servers act as proxies to mask c2 traffic to the cloud servers . ", "mobile malware is also used to infect android , ios , and blackberry devices via sms and links ."]
["the attacker sends emails with excel docs containing malicious macros to bank employees . ", "the macro extracts and decodes base64 content from the excel sheet . ", "the decoded content is dropped as a vbscript and powershell script on the system . ", "the macro creates a scheduled task to repeatedly execute the vbscript . ", "the vbscript uses powershell to download tools like mimikatz and a custom bat script . ", "the bat script gathers system information like accounts , processes , etc. ", "the vbscript exfiltrates the data by encoding it in dns subdomain names . ", "the macro unhides additional benign content in the excel sheet after executing . ", "the multistage attack allows the attacker to gather intelligence on the bank 's systems ."]
["the initial dropper is executed on the victim system , likely via windows command shell . it installs the persistent loader . ", "the persistent loader unpacks and injects the main module into a system process like lsass.exe . ", "the main module sets up command and control communication and injects the networking module to send and receive data . ", "additional modules like getmicinfo and modscan are downloaded from the c2 server . ", "getmicinfo decrypts and extracts database passwords and configuration data from the registry . ", "modscan can scan ip addresses and fingerprint the pos software environment . ", "data is exfiltrated to the c2 server via the networking module . ", "the main module can also receive commands from the c2 server to further control the compromised machine ."]
["ta505 sends phishing emails with weaponized document attachments using social engineering . ", "documents contain exploits or macros that execute and download initial droppers / stages from command and control servers . ", "first - stage malware profiles the system and fetches next - stage remote access trojans if deemed a target . ", "rats like flawedammyy and sdbbot provide access and deploy scripts for reconnaissance like powersploit . ", "credentials are stolen through mimikatz and privilege escalation is performed until domain admin access . ", "lateral movement with cobaltstrike and rdp expands control across the network . ", "ransomware is deployed across critical systems for extortion . data may also be exfiltrated . ", "infrastructure shifts rapidly across campaigns to evade detection . payloads are packed , obscure , and signed . ", "access to compromised networks may be resold to other groups . attacks evolve continuously to maximize financial gain ."]
